<iframe src="//www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-N5Z5B2"
		height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden"></iframe>
		
		

		
			
				
			
		

		
			
				    
				
					
						  
						  
						  
						 Give Today!
					
					800.397.0330
					Hours + Location
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
						
							
								
									Home
								
								
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

	

	
		

		
			
		
			Your VisitVisit
		
		

		
			
				Your Visit
			
		
		
		
	
	
	
			
	
	
	
		 Plan Your Visit 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Tickets & Showtimes 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Hours & Location 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Museum Maps 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Families 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Groups 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Facility Rentals 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Birthday Parties 
	
	
		
		
		
	
								
	
	
	
	

	

	
		

		
			
		
			AttractionsAttractions
		
		

		
			
				Attractions
			
		
		
		
	
	
	
			
	
	
	

		 Carey Digital Dome Theater 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Justice Planetarium 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Dr. Goddard’s Lab 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Hall of Space Museum 
	
	
		
		
		
	
								
	
	
	
	

	

	
		

		
			
		
			
				Education
			
		
		

		
			
				Education
			
		
		
		
	
	
	
	
	
	

		 School Experiences 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Outreach Programs 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	
		 Curriculum Packages 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Apollo Redux: Interactive Exhibit 
	
	
		
		
		
	
								
	
	
	
	

	

	
		

		
			
		
			The CosmosphereAbout
		
		

		
			
				The Cosmosphere
			
		
		
		
	
	
	
			
	
	
	
		 About Us 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	
		 Virtual Tour 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Careers 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Privacy Policy 
	
	
		
		
		
	
								
	
	
	

	

	
		

		
			
		
			
				SpaceWorks
			
		
		

		
			
				SpaceWorks
			
		
		
		
	
	
	
			
	
	
	

		 Exhibit Services 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Replication 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Restoration 
	
	
		
		
		
	
							
						
					
				

				
					
						
							
								
									Museum ShopShop
								
								
	
	
	
	
	
	

	

	
		

		
			
		
			
				Get Involved
			
		
		

		
			
				Get Involved
			
		
		
		
	
	
	
			
	
	
	

		 Membership 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Corporate Membership 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Giving 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Corporate Partnership 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Volunteer 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	
		 Revitalization Campaign 
	
	
		
		
		
	
 								
								
	

	

	
		

		
			
		
			
				Camps
			
		
		

		
			
				Camps
			
		
		
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
		 Overview 
	
	
		
		
		
	
								
								
									Scouts
								
								
	
	
	
	
	
	

	
					

	
		

		
			
		
			
				News + Events
			
		
		

		
			
				News + Events
			
		
		
		
	
	
	
	
	
	

		 Apollo 13 Mission Debrief and Gala 
	
		
	
	
					 Event Pictures 
			
	
	
	

		 30th Anniversary of Hubble Space Telescope 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Apollo 13 Spring Break 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	
		 Newsroom 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Event Calendar 
	
		
	
	
	
	
	

		 Newsletter 
	
	
		
		
		
	
								
									Blog
								
								
									Contact
								
							
						
					
				

				
					
						Contact
						
							Give Today!
						
						
							  
							  
							  
						
					
				
			
		
		

		





	
	
		X
		
		
			Join us Sat., April 4 at 1:30 pm at Hutchinson’s Historic Fox Theatre for an Apollo 13 Panel Discussion with Apollo 13 astronauts and Mission Control members!
		
		
			
				Get Your Tickets NOW!
			
		
	


	
		
		
			
				
					
				
			
		 
	
	
		
			
				  
				  
				  
				  
				  
			
			 Tickets + Showtimes 
		
	



	
		
			
				
					  
					  
				
				     
			
			   
			
				
			 
		
		
			
				Calendar of Events
			
			
				
				
				
					Celebrate Spring Break at the Home of the Apollo 13 Spacecraft!
				 
				
					March 7 – March 29
				 
				
					12:00 am – 12:00 am
				 
				
				
				
					Coffee at the Cosmo: New Cosmosphere Camps
				 
				
					March 19
				 
				
					9:00 am – 10:00 am
				 
				
				
				
					Smithsonian Magazine Museum Day 2020
				 
				
					April 4
				 
				
					9:00 am – 3:00 pm
				 
				
			
			 View Entire List 
		
		
			
			
				
					
						
						
						
						
							Celebrate Spring Break at the Home of the Apollo 13 Spacecraft!
							
								 Date: Saturday, March 07, 2020  
								
								Location:
							
							Spring break visitors are invited to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Apollo 13 mission at the home of the authentic Apollo 13 spacecraft—the Cosmosphere!

We will offer extended hours until 7 pm, March 14–22.


Apollo 13 Special Activities


	Take a selfie with the actual Apollo 13 spacecraft, Odyssey. Be sure to tag us on social media with #ISawOdyssey, then drop by the Box Office for a commemorative sticker! (While supplies last.)
	Find Apollo 13 artifacts in the museum* with a fun scavenger hunt. *Ticket required.
	Collect commemorative Apollo 13 trading cards (while supplies last) featuring the crew, the mission and the spacecraft.
	Get creative with Apollo 13 coloring activities in our grand lobby for the kids!


NEW Exhibit: Apollo 13: A Mission of Survival
Restored on-site, the authentic Apollo 13 spacecraft —Odyssey—calls the Cosmosphere home! SpaceWorks, a division of the Cosmosphere specializing in restoration, replication and exhibit design also had a major role in re-creating the mission for Hollywood and the 1995 movie “Apollo 13”— producing more than 80 percent of the movie’s props.  From spacesuits worn by Tom Hanks to the replicated Lunar Module, the Cosmosphere’s work can be seen throughout the film. Learn more about the mission and the Cosmosphere’s role in the film in this new exhibit near the Cosmosphere Café, at the top of the museum entrance.

Apollo 13 Guided Tours*
Don't miss the docent guided tours through the Cosmosphere museum, with special attention given to the Apollo 13 mission and artifacts. Tours times are available on March 14, 17-20, 21 and 28 at 11 am, 1 pm and 3 pm. *A ticket into the Hall of Space Museum is required. 

Apollo 13 Hutchinson Community Partners
Don't miss these amazing community partners that are helping us celebrate the 50th anniversary of Apollo 13 all throughout Hutchinson — March 14-April 19, 2020. Be sure to drop by and shop local!


	Bogey’s: March's Shake of the Month: Moon Pie Shake. A classic snack that features the "grand slam" of snack ingredients - chocolate, marshmallow and graham crackers!
	HutchRec: Salt City Half Marathon race and a special 13% off discount for the 13.1-mile race. Participants need to enter: APOLLO13 at online check-out for a 13% off discount on race registration at hutchrec.com. The code is active now through April 19, 2020.
	Bluebird Books & Cafe: Apollo 13/Space-themed barista blend drinks and special bookstore displays
	Hutchinson Public Library: Space themed book display
	Sugartime Confections: Space-themed bakery items for sale. 
	Hutchinson Community College: Thank you for helping spread the word about Apollo 13 with your electronic board at 13th and Plum!
	Hutchinson Regional Healthcare System: Many thanks for helping spread the word about Apollo 13 with your electronic board at 17th and Waldron!
	Visit Hutch and Hutch Chamber: Many thanks for helping spread the word about Apollo 13!


New CosmoKids Area and X-Plane Gallery Opens!
On March 16, two brand new areas in the Cosmosphere museum will be open to the public. 

The CosmoKids interactive area is designed specifically for the Cosmosphere’s youngest visitors (ages two to six) and will introduce children to STEM (or STEAM — Science, Technology, Engineering, Art and Math) principles with hands-on learning activities.  Children will be able to design and launch a rocket, climb in an “Orion” style space capsule and build a habitat for another world using stacking building blocks.

The redesigned Cosmosphere museum entrance area will feature a brand new X-Plane gallery, where visitors will learn about the program’s important testing and breaking of boundaries which lead to a better understanding of the impact high altitude and high speed flight had on humans and hardware.

NEW Documentary: Ancient Caves
Opens Friday, March 13. Combining science and adventure, viewers will follow paleo-climatologist, Dr. Gina Moseley, on a journey to unlock the secrets of the Earth's climate in the most unlikely of places: caves. For show times, call: 620.665.9347 or see cosmo.org. 
						
					
				
			
			
			
				
					
						
						
						
						
							Coffee at the Cosmo: New Cosmosphere Camps
							
								 Date: Thursday, March 19, 2020  9:00 AM – 10:00 AM 
								
								Location:Cosmosphere
							
							Offered every Third Thursday from 9:00 - 10:00 am, this enriching continuing education program for life-long learners features entertaining, insightful presentations by Cosmosphere staff and visiting professionals who are experts in a variety of topics related to science and space. Free to the public, coffee and pastries are provided. 

Enjoy this free presentation on "The New Cosmosphere Camps," with Cosmosphere's Vice President of Educaton and Strategy, Nathan Meyer. 

*Coffee at the Cosmo topics and speakers are subject to change.
						
					
				
			
			
			
				
					
						
						
						
						
							Smithsonian Magazine Museum Day 2020
							
								 Date: Saturday, April 04, 2020  9:00 AM – 3:00 PM 
								
								Location:Cosmosphere
							
							Join us Saturday, April 4, 2020 for Smithsonian magazine Museum Day! (Please note we are open from 9:00 am - 3:00 pm on Saturday, April 4, 2020.)

Cosmosphere guests that show their printed ticket receive FREE admission into the Hall of Space Museum for two guests. Tickets available HERE beginning February 27, 2020. 

Mark your calendar for America’s annual celebration of boundless curiosity. Museum Day brings together museums, zoos & cultural centers from all 50 states to offer free admission to all ticket holders. This year, Museum Day will celebrate EARTH OPTIMISM!

Museum Day is moving from Fall to Spring in 2020 to coincide with the 50th anniversary of Earth Day. The annual Museum Day event will take place on Saturday, April 4th.
						
					
				
			
			
		
	



	
		 
		
			
				Carey Digital Dome Theater
			
		 
	
		 
		
			
				Justice Planetarium
			
		 
	
		 
		
			
				Hall of Space Museum
			
		 
	
		 
		
			
				Dr. Goddard’s Lab
			
		 
	



	
		     
		     
		     
		     
	


		
			
				
					
						
						
							
						 Hours 
						
						
							
						 Location 
						
						
							
						 Museum Maps 
						
						
							
						 Dining 
						Purchase Tickets
					
					  
				
				
					
						
							Sign-Up
						
						
							Stay informed of upcoming shows + events.
						
						
							
							
							
								
								Your Email Address
							
							
						
					
					
						
							
								Plan Your Visit
								
									Exhibitions
									
										Education
										
											About the Cosmosphere
											
												Event Calendar

						
						
							
							
								Membership
								
									Volunteer
									
										Support
										
											SpaceWorks
											
												Newsroom
						
					
				
				
					© 2020 Cosmosphere. All rights reserved.
				
			
			
				
					
					
						Stay Connected
						
							  
							  
							  
							  
							  
						
					
				
			
		
		
			×